H5N1 in Wild birds
Researchers from Bologna University, the Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale della Lombardia e dell'Emilia, and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital have discovered a new method of avian influenza transmission. The team, led by Mauro Delogu a virologist from the veterinary faculty of Bologna University, recently published their findings in PLoS One (citation below). They found that preen oil gland secretions, which aquatic birds use to waterproof their feathers, concentrates avian influenza viruses (AIVs) from the water onto the birds’ bodies. The virus “sticks” to the birds’ feathers when they encounter water contaminated by AIVs and then the birds spread the virus by preening themselves and other birds. According to Delogu, this discovery has important implications for surveillance of bird flu because current methods could fail to detect virus on feathers. They suggest that future surveillance programs include sampling methods that detect AIVs on birds’ bodies. The results of the study suggest that a preened body may be the common factor between different taxonomic groups of aquatic birds that are susceptible to bird flu. Finally, the discovery aids in understanding the circulation and persistence of H5N1 in Eurasia. Scientists from the University of Wisconsin, the Wisconsin Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit, and the National Wildlife Health Center have developed a Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Recovered (SEIR) model for both low pathogenic (LPAI) and highly pathogenic (HPAI) bird flu. Led by Viviane Hénaux, they used published laboratory challenged studies to estimate epidemiological parameters such as rate of infection, latency period, recovery rates, and mortality rates. They found that HPAI has a shorter infectious period than LPAI, which may explain why HPAI has been harder to detect during surveillance. The model predicted a rapid LPAI epidemic curve, with a median duration of infection of 50–60 days and no fatalities. In contrast, HPAI dynamics had lower prevalence and higher mortality, especially in young birds. They suggest that surveillance for HPAI should be increased in post-breeding areas because the presence of young birds is predicted to cause higher HPAI prevalence. This information will help to refine predictions of AI risk and spread, improve surveillance for HPAI in wild birds, and develop disease control strategies to reduce potential transmission to domestic birds and/or humans. The results of the study were published in PLoS One (citation below).