H5N1 in Humans in Indonesia
 The Biomedical and Basic Health Technology Research Center Laboratory of the Ministry of Health reported on April 1 that a 28-year-old female resident of Kabupaten (district) Gunung Kidul, Yogyakarta province, had tested positive for H5N1 bird flu infection.  On March 1, the woman began to suffer from fever, coughing and vomiting. After seeking medical treatment from health workers and private clinics for several days, she was referred to a private hospital on March 11, where she was diagnosed with fever. She developed breathing difficulty during the hospitalization, and two days later she was referred to a bird flu referral hospital in Yogyakarta, where she received treatment according to the standard procedure. She later died in this hospital.  The cause of the infection is undetermined; however, it is known that the woman’s family rears several chickens and ducks and that she frequently visited a traditional market to buy goods to be sold in her own shop. Control measures have been taken by the Ministry of Health with the local health service, and the Directorate General of Disease Control and Environmental Health has informed the World Health Organization.It was reported on April 3 that a 45-year-old female from Desa (hamlet) Gadungan Sari, Kecamatan (district) Selemadeg Timur, Bali province, is suspected of having H5N1 bird flu infection. Dr. Ketut Subrata, of Bali’s Health Service, said the patient became a bird flu suspect after she showed bird flu-like symptoms such as coughing, runny nose, fever and difficulty breathing. Additionally, there were sudden chicken deaths around her house within the month preceding her symptoms.  The patient is currently hospitalized and in good condition. The medical investigation by the Health Service is ongoing, and the hospital is still waiting for laboratory confirmation.The director of Wahidin Sudirohusodo hospital in Makassar, Andi Kalsum Patonangi, reported on April 7 that a 2-year-old tested positive for H5N1 bird flu infection.  Prior to diagnosis, the child had developed high fever, breathing difficulty and flu-like signs.  Infection was confirmed after intensive examination by the medical team. Patonangi said the child is now under intensive treatment and his condition is now improving. It is suspected that the patient was probably infected by contact with birds when his immunity was low.