Avian Influenza in Animals
New research in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences by St. Jude Children's Research Hospital suggests that highly pathogenic flu viruses do not persist in wild birds.  The results of the study indicates that while migratory waterfowl are known carriers of low pathogenic flu viruses this is not the case with highly pathogenic flu viruses that could be associated with more severe illness. In the study, researchers analyzed throat swabs and other biological samples from 22,892 wild ducks and other aquatic birds collected before, during, and after a 2014-15 clade 2.3.4.4 HPAI H5 outbreak in poultry. This outbreak has been linked to a highly pathogenic H5N8 influenza virus A spread from Asia via migratory waterfowl. The H5N8 virus mixed with other influenza viruses in North America and caused 248 outbreaks in commercial and backyard turkey farms in the U.S and Canada. Officials worked to end these outbreaks by quarantining and eliminating infected poultry. In spite of the worry that the highly pathogenic virus would be re-introduced into poultry farms by aquatic birds carrying the virus, none of the birds analyzed were infected with a highly pathogenic flu virus during the subsequent fall and spring migration. In the paper, the sampling was conducted in Canada, the Mississippi flyaway, and along the U.S. Atlantic coast by David Stalknecht and Rebecca Poulson of the University of Georgia and Richard Simmons, Andrew Bowman, Jacqueline Nolting from the Ohio State University in conjunction with Scott Krauss and James Knowles of St. Jude. The sampling was done as part of the federally funded Centers of Excellence for Influenza Research and Surveillance. Highly pathogenic viruses have not been identified in any of the more than 100,000 wild birds tested since the flu surveillance started 43 years ago. Existing immunity in wild birds is one of the possible explanations for why highly pathogenic viruses do not become established in wild bird populations. There were no reported cases of human cases of influenza in this outbreak, but other H5 viruses are known to spread to humans with deadly results.