H5N1 in Poultry in Bangladesh
Around 8,000 chickens from a poultry farm in Kishoreganj district infected with H5N1 bird flu have been culled. The carcasses of the birds were buried on February 3 under the supervision of the district livestock department. The bird flu infection was confirmed when the livestock department sent a sample of the tissue to the Central Diseases Investigation Laboratory in Dhaka on February 2 after some of the chickens of the farm had died. The farm owner said the culling caused him a loss of around Tk 1.4 million. "However, the government has assured me of providing Tk 150 for each chicken, which will help me recover my losses a little bit."Indonesia. An outbreak of H5N1 bird flu in Jambi province that caused the deaths of at least 4,164 chickens in Kerinci regency was reported on February 2. "To prevent spreading disease, Animal Husbandry Division of Kerinci regency is now working hard to supervise people and to spray disinfectant," said Secretary of Animal Husbandry Division of Kerinci regency, Igor. Head of Animal Health Division of Kerinci regency, Ariyan, admitted that there are still many villagers who do not want to destroy their chickens. "However, we keep supervising them," she said.Outbreaks of H5N1 bird flu in Prabumulih and Palembang in South Sumatra have led municipal governments to call for the mass culling of sick animals. The outbreak came as a shock after many thought the disease had been successfully curbed over the last several years. Prabumulih municipal Horticulture, Agriculture, Husbandry and Fishery (PPKPP) Agency chief R.A. Hanunah said, “At this moment we’re continuing to conduct dissemination activities, especially in the affected areas.” She urged local residents to keep their poultry in sheds and rather than allowing them to roam freely through neighborhoods. This will make it easier to watch the animals for signs of disease and to avoid transmission of the virus to humans. The agency undertook additional control measures such as disinfecting poultry sheds in endemic areas and culling eggs laid by sick birds. Palembang municipal Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry Agency head Sudirman Teguh said at least 25 birds have died from avian flu in the municipality. We have conducted follow-up measures by expanding the mass cleaning activities to a radius of 1 kilometer,” he said, January 31. He has also created a task force to prevent the flow of birds into the area from other cities.