India (HPAI H5N8)
The World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) reports two case of the highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza virus in the District of Alappuzha, in the state of Kerala in southern India on October 27, 2016.  HPAI H5N8 infection in poultry in the panchayats of Ramankari and Thakazhy were reported to OIE on 11/4/16. But local media sources have reported that birds in additional panchayats in Alappuzha including Anari, Kainadi, Karuvatta, Mampuzhakkara, Neelamperoor, Pallippad and Pandi are also positive. Special Rapid Response Teams, deputed in Thakazhy, Cheruthana, and Muttom Grama panchayats, conducted surveys at the locations where ducks were affected by the disease. 1,167 ducks affected by the disease-causing virus were culled: six hundred ducks were culled at Muttom and 396 ducks at Thakazhy; 180 ducks infected by the virus were killed at Cheruthana. The culling operations could not be carried out at Kainadi in Neelamperoor. The non-affected ducks are under close observation. The Animal Husbandry Department reports a case of highly pathogenic H5N8 avian influenza virus in Arpookkara panchayat, in the district of Kottayam, in the state of Kerala. Samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases all came back positive for the virus. This outbreak was not included in the OIE report of 11/4/16. A total of 3,125 birds have died in the district, and the remaining susceptible birds will be culled to prevent further spread. The cause of this outbreak is unknown. The National Zoological Park in the capital, New Delhi, is closed because of highly pathogenic H5N8 avian influenza virus. Nine birds died beginning on 10/14 and included 5 rosy pelicans, three ducks and one painted stork. Two birds have tested positive for H5N8.  Following the detection, additional birds including a grey partridge, a free-living rosy pelican, a munia have died. Three crows have died in the Delhi neighborhood of Sundar Nagar and have tested positive for H5N8. The Ghazipur murga mandi (chicken market) consistently tested negative. Local reports are confusing, but at least 80 wild birds have died around Delhi including in the Hauz Khas Deer Park and Shakti Sthal, where the memorial to Indira Gandhi is and at least 12 are said to have tested positive for H5N8. None of these have been reported to OIE. Officials have stated likely causes of this outbreak are domestic cross-infection, climatic conditions, and lack of cleanliness in the area. The National Zoological Park is undergoing an extensive cleaning and fumigation process, and will be closed for the next 3 months. In the province of Madhya Pradesh,18 birds, including 15 painted storks,  have died in the Gandhi Zoological Park over a three day period. Two of the 15 painted storks have tested positive for HPAI H5N8 as of 10/22/16. Two days later, the remaining six painted storks at the zoo had died. There has been no update as to the test results on the second set of birds at present. In the Punjab province, two ducks found dead at a reservoir in Rajpura have tested positive for H5N8. There is no further information on this case at the present time. How the H5N8 viruses in the various Indian outbreaks relate to each other and to other H5N8 viruses found elsewhere in the world is unknown at present.