H5N1 in Poultry in Indonesia
About 300 birds, including chickens and ducks, have died from H5N1 bird flu in West Java province, since mid-February. The Chief of Banyuresmi, Wawan Ridwan, said the birds had died suddenly without any sign of sickness. Bird flu was confirmed by rapid testing and plans have been put in place to cull the remaining birds in the area to prevent the disease from spreading.Hundreds of chickens in Riau and East Java provinces were reported dead on February 22. The outbreak in Riau is centered in the Meranti Island regency and Pekanbaru city. On February 4, the first chickens were found dead and the disease has since spread rapidly. The Pekanbaru Health Office chief, Dahril Darwis, said he deployed a team to monitor the outbreak and distributed doses of tamiflu, used to suppress and decrease transmission of the virus, to local community health centers. On Meranti Island, the administration ordered a mass culling of local poultry to stop the spread of the virus.Authorities declared avian flu “endemic” in 12 districts of Pacitan, East Java, after a dozen outbreaks were reported in the regency. Pacitan Food, Crops and Animal Husbandry Office Head Fatkhur Rozi said the most recent outbreak in the regency was discovered in January. “Nearly all districts in Pacitan were previously afflicted by avian flu. No area can be said to be safe,” Fatkhur said, as quoted by Antara news agency. The worst hit areas, he said, were the districts of Nawangan, Sudimoro, Donorojo, Kebonagung and Tulakan. According to the office, the number of dead chickens in each infected area ranged from 30 to 100, but the real numbers might be higher because many poultry deaths go unreported. Fatkhur said that the high number of avian flu cases in Pacitan could be attributed to local residents’ failure to follow safety procedures, “They frequently said they would join vaccination [programs] and clean their sheds after their hens were infected. But as soon as the problem was settled, the people went back to their old habits and didn’t bother with it again.” He added that the problem is that even though avian flu was declared endemic in Pacitan regency, the local administration did not earmark any special funds to fight it.