H5N1 in Poultry in Japan
The Miyazaki Prefectural Government reported on February 1 that 191 birds had died at a farm in Miyazaki city. Of the 7 birds tested, 6 were positive for H5N1 bird flu in a preliminary exam.  Chickens in two more locations in Miyazaki prefecture have tested positive for H5N1 bird flu according to a report on January 29. A Nobeoka poultry farm found six of its chickens had died recently, while a Kawaminami farm had more than 400 chickens die after exhibiting bird flu symptoms. The local government has decided to cull about 92,000 birds at the Kawaminami farm and conduct a detailed investigation. Meanwhile, all 31,000 chickens from poultry farm in Tsuno and its affiliated meat-processing center were culled after 186 chickens shipped from the farm were found dead January 27. H5N1 has been confirmed from the Tsuno birds. A fourth location in Miyazaki prefecture was reported positive for H5N1 bird flu on January 31. Of 90 birds found dead at a farm in Takanabe  five were tested and four were positive for bird flu confirming the season’s sixth outbreak of bird flu in the prefecture and the ninth in the country. On January 31, officials started culling all 40,000 chickens on the farm and announced plans to impose a ban on transporting chickens or eggs from farms within a 10 km radius. For the time being the Japanese government has asked Miyazaki prefecture to report the number of birds on poultry farms that die each day. The prefectural government was found Friday to have allowed a company affiliated with the farm in the city of Miyazaki, the first to have an outbreak, to carry out on-the-spot inspections on its behalf last year. Inspections by the central government after the outbreak showed a number of holes in the farm’s bird net, which is intended to prevent wild birds from entering the poultry houses. The Miyazaki prefectural government said that its own sanitary officials were only able to check one-fourth of the 984 poultry farms with 100 chickens or more last year due to a shortage of staff.