H5N1 in Humans in Indonesia
In Banten province, a 50-year-old man is being treated in isolation at Serang Regional Hospital for suspected bird flu. According to the hospital’s spokesperson, the patient arrived on January 10 with a high fever, sore throat and low white blood cell count. His family reported that he developed the fever after direct contact with chickens that had suddenly died near his house. This is the first suspected bird flu case at Serang Regional Hospital in 2010. Of 27 suspected cases in 2009, one patient died before the laboratory confirmed the diagnosis and 26 were negative.In Jakarta two recent cases of H5N1 infection in humans have been reported. A 25-year-old woman, who was possibly infected through direct contact with poultry, died on January 25. A 3-year-old boy has recovered after showing only mild symptoms of influenza. In both cases, laboratory tests confirmed H5N1 bird flu as the cause of the illness.In Bekasi, West Java province, a 25-year-old died from H5N1 on January 25. According to the Head of Public Communication Center Ministry of Health, laboratory tests were positive for H5N1 bird flu. The patient may have been infected through direct contact with birds.In Lampung province, a patient suspected of being infected with bird flu has been quarantined at Abdul Moeloek General Hospital. The woman had symptoms such as high fever, coughing, and difficulty breathing, and had reportedly been in direct contact with chickens that died suddenly. According to her husband, thousands of chickens near their home, including 15 of their own, died recently. Laboratory tests of the dead chickens showed that they were infected with bird flu. Doctors are awaiting tests results to determine whether or not the patient has bird flu, but have encouraged citizens to be cautious even if the results come back negative because the area is at risk for bird flu. An outbreak in the area two years ago killed thousands of chickens. The dead chickens were burned, but citizens refused to hand over ill chickens to be culled, causing concern among health officials.
            (more...)