H5N1 in Poultry in Vietnam
Two villages in Quang Tri and one in Thanh Hoa have had outbreaks of bird flu start between January 19 and January 27. A total of 1,593 cases occurred among a susceptible population of 3,632 birds. There were 200 deaths and the remaining 3,432 birds were culled to prevent the spread of the disease. A village in Hai Duong province has been experiencing an outbreak of H5N1 bird flu since January 28. In total, 1,000 birds in a population of 2,637 died and the rest were culled to prevent the virus from spreading. Outbreaks of H5N1 bird flu began on February 8 and 10 in two villages in Hai Phong province. Out of 2,100 susceptible birds, 800 were infected, 625 died, and the surviving 1,475 were culled as a preventative measure. The source of the outbreaks in Quang Tri, Thanh Hoa, Hai Duong and Hai Phong is unknown, but control measures such as quarantine, movement control, and disinfection of infected premises have been undertaken. There are also plans to enact screening, zoning, and vaccination. Tests for Quang Tri and Thanh Hoa were conducted by Regional Animal Health Office No. 3 on January 25 and for Hai Duong on February 8.The People’s Committee of northern Ha Nam province announced the first outbreak of bird flu in Kim Bang district and reported high risk of the disease in many other areas. Poultry raised by two local households in the same village died on February 7. Two thousand birds died among a population of 3,400 birds; the remaining 1,400 birds were culled as a preventative measure. Tests on samples from the dead poultry confirmed that they were positive for H5N1 bird flu, according to the provincial animal health department. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's Department of Animal Health sterilized the affected areas, set up five quarantine stations in the commune, and culled all poultry raised by the affected households. However, a Vietnam News Agency correspondent reported that some local residents threw dead poultry into canals and left duck carcasses decomposing in the open air. Officials in southern Bac Lieu and Tra Vinh provinces also reported that their areas faced high risk of a bird flu outbreak since many birds have died with no clear cause in the past month and, in Tra Vinh province, 6 of 12 samples from the poultry markets tested positive for the disease, though the province has not yet declared the outbreak. Ha Nam province will be vaccinating all domestic fowl free-of-charge from now until the end of the year. The source of the outbreak is unknown, but control measures such as quarantine, movement control, and disinfection of infected premises have been undertaken. Plans are underway to enact screening, zoning, and vaccination.