HIN1 in Pigs and Other Animals in USA
Final tests confirmed that six pigs contracted pandemic H1N1 (2009) virus at the Minnesota State Fair, three more than were initially thought. This is the first case of pigs contracting the disease in the United States. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) reported on Monday that pigs on a commercial farm in Indiana also contracted pandemic H1N1 (2009). It is believed that the pigs on the “farrow to finisher” facility were infected by sick employees. Both the pigs and their caretakers have fully recovered and the farm is continuing under normal operating procedures. The USDA is not releasing the name of the facility or the size of the herd "in order to ensure continued high levels of participation in swine surveillance efforts, and because this is not a food safety or public health risk." This was the first report of the disease on a commercial farm in the U.S. Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control estimate that around 5.7 million people in the United States have been infected with pandemic H1N1 (2009) and at least 1,300 people have died. In Nebraska, a ferret that contracted pandemic H1N1 (2009) virus from its owners has died from the disease. Testing at the University of Nebraska Veterinary Diagnostic Lab confirmed H1N1. This is the only known case of a ferret infected with H1N1. Proper hygiene and sanitation and isolating sick individuals are the best defense against the flu virus in all species. Tests conducted by Iowa State University's College of Veterinary medicine confirmed that an Iowa cat was infected with pandemic H1N1 (2009) virus. The 13-year-old indoor cat caught the virus from its owners, as two individuals in the family of three had been sick prior to the cat developing symptoms. State health officials are warning pet owners to take proper precautions to protect their pets by minimizing contact with pets when they are sick. Pets who are sick may not cough but may exhibit other symptoms like lethargy. The cat and his owners have fully recovered.