H5N1 in Poultry in Japan
On January 23, 20 chickens were found dead on a farm in Miyazaki prefecture, one of the top poultry producers in the country, and a simple examination of 6 of the birds found that 5 were infected by the H5N1 virus. Plans are to cull around 410,000 birds to prevent the spread of the disease. Over the weekend 10,200 birds were culled after 36 birds died on a second farm located 8.5 km away and highly pathogenic avian infuenza H5 has been detected. The government has ordered all birds and eggs within 10km of the farms to be destroyed and has agreed to send 170 members of the Ground Self-Defense Force to help with the process. The chickens culled over the weekend were incinerated, but 410,000 birds are too many for incineration, ¬so the carcasses will be buried instead.According to the agriculture ministry and the Kagoshima prefectural government, a strain of the highly virulent bird flu was detected on January 26 in chickens at a poultry farm in Izumi, Kagoshima Prefecture. The prefecture culled 8,600 chickens at the poultry farm and ordered other farms within a 10-km radius to refrain from transporting chickens and eggs. On January 25, the farm reported to the prefecture's livestock hygiene service center that birds were showing signs of infection. Local government officials conducted preliminary testing for avian flu on 9 chickens, including dead birds, and 8 tested positive for bird flu. According to the farm, the chickens started dying around January 20 and a total of 160 had died by January 25. The prefectural government conducted genetic testing Tuesday evening and detected the highly pathogenic H5 strain of the bird flu virus in the farm's dead chickens early on January 26.Following confirmation of the infection, the prefecture started a mass cull of the chickens and it was completed the same morning.  The farm is located less than 2 km from the largest crane overwintering area in the country.Aichi Prefecture. A fifth poultry farm may be affected with H5N1. 450 chickens have died over 4 days at the egg layer farm and have tested positive for avian influenza.