H5N1 in Poultry in Indonesia
Four cities (Pinrang, Luwu Utara, Sidrap, and Polman) in South Sulawesi province have experienced outbreaks of bird flu or suspected bird flu since September 21. Pinrang has been hit the hardest with at least 4,094 backyard chickens dead from bird flu, which was diagnosed by clinical observation, necropsy, and rapid testing.  The head of the Animal Health Division, Livestock Service of Pinrang, Elvi Martina, said that the outbreak was probably caused by heavy rainfall. In order to prevent the spread of the disease, the Livestock Service is conducting surveillance in the area, burning dead chickens, culling surviving chickens, disinfecting premises, distributing masks and gloves to people in the area, and advising people not to market sick birds or dispose of them in rivers or the sea. Luwu Utara and Sidrap also experienced the deaths of thousands of chickens. In Luwu Utara bird flu has been confirmed so surviving chickens were culled or vaccinated and the premises were disinfected to prevent the spread of the disease. In Sidrap the cause of death is still under investigation. The local Livestock and Fishery Service in Sidrap has strengthened livestock traffic control to prevent the introduction of the disease from nearby cities. Most recently, bird flu was reported in Polman on September 29. About 200 chickens in an abattoir and hundreds of chickens on several farms died suddenly after showing signs such as darkening of the wattle, comb, and skin. The Livestock Service has confirmed bird flu infection in this area. Samples have been collected for further analysis by Maros (Veterinary Disease Investigating Center). Sick birds have been culled, healthy birds have been evacuated and affected areas have been disinfected to prevent the spread of the disease.In Ponrogo, East Java, an outbreak was reported in the local news on September 26. Dozens of apparently healthy chickens died overnight. Laboratory tests by the Health Service were positive for H5N1 bird flu. After the findings, people culled and burned the surviving birds.Rapid tests by the Agriculture, Marine and Fishery Service identified bird flu in chickens that had died in Balikpapan, East Kalimantan, in late September. Control measures such as sterilization of chicken cages and culling the remaining chickens have been undertaken.