H5N1 in Poultry in Indonesia
A laboratory test conducted by the Veterinary Center (BBVet) Yogyakarta found that a new strain of H5N1 bird flu was responsible for killing thousands of ducks in Yogyakarta, Central Java, and East Java since September 2012. The new strain, first found in Nepal in 2010, has been identified as H5N1 clade 2.3. So far, 113,700 ducks have reportedly died because of the virus over the last four months (64,000 in Central Java, 45,000 in East Java, and 4,700 in Yogyakarta).In West Java, the head of the West Java Animal Husbandry Agency, Koesmayadie Tatang Padmadinata reported that in the first half of December, 2,907 ducks had died after being infected with the new strain of the avian flu. In anticipation of the possible spread of the new strain, the animal husbandry office distributed disinfectant all across the province, especially in regions where confirmed cases had been found. They are also examining the new virus strain at the animal drug examination and certification center to determine whether or not the old vaccine will protect birds from the new virus. There are 222 officers in the province tasked with monitoring for H5N1 and reporting new outbreaks within 24 hours.The Ministry of Agriculture confirmed that thousands of chickens died from H5N1 bird flu in Banten and West Java provinces between December 16 and December 22. West Java reported that around 8,000 chickens died from the virus during this time period. It is not yet known whether they died from the new strain of the virus, but the chickens that died were being kept in cages with ducks. Director of Animal Health at the Directorate General of Livestock and Animal Health, Pujiatmoko, said, "We are conducting strict monitoring to secure infected areas." He added that the Ministry disinfects poultry cages and burns and buries poultry that have died suddenly. They are prohibiting the mixing of ducks and other birds in one cage and banning the sale of sick birds. Agriculture Minister Suswono said the ministry will aid farmers who have suffered losses through the death of their poultry.