H5N1 in Poultry in South Korea
On December 31, South Korea reported the first outbreak of H5N1 bird flu in domestic poultry in two years. Two poultry farms in South Jeolla province and Chungcheong province first detected bird flu on December 29 as birds began to die off. Together the farms contained a total of 27,850 chickens and ducks. Both farms have been placed under quarantine with authorities moving to cull and bury their ducks and chickens to prevent the disease from spreading. Quarantine officials had stepped up inspections on wild birds and urged poultry businesses to take extra precautions, like setting up nets around their farms to keep out wild birds, after wild birds were confirmed to have the disease earlier in the month. More than 100,000 birds have been slaughtered in efforts to contain the disease and health authorities placed a quarantine zone over a 10 km (6.25 mile) radius, restricting movements of vehicles and people and carrying out emergency disinfection. The latest confirmation effectively ends South Korea's bird flu-free status and will halt exports of chickens, ducks and related products. The bird flu outbreak is likely to further strain the country's health system, which has been struggling to contain swine flu and foot-and-mouth disease cases across the country.Bird flu was reported on January 5 at a duck farm in South Jeolla Province. It was confirmed as H5N1 bird flu by laboratory testing after 4,500 of the 14,500 ducks on the farm died. The Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Ministry said close inspections are underway at a Yeongam duck farm. “Ducks continued to die Sunday and Monday so the owner of the farm reported this to quarantine authorities,” a ministry official said. “The report was delayed because unlike chickens, ducks show no particular symptoms when infected with bird flu.” Authorities culled and buried not only the ducks on the farm but also 70,000 poultry within a 500-meter radius to prevent the disease from spreading.On January 6, South Korea confirmed its first bird flu outbreak in the Gyeonggi region near Seoul, raising concerns that the highly contagious disease is spreading across the country despite quarantine efforts. According to the Farm Ministry, birds on a farm in Anseong began dying off over the weekend and a duck tested positive for H5N1 bird flu. This is the first case of H5N1 in the province in nearly three years and the ninth outbreak in the country this year. "All 32,000 ducks on the (Anseong) farm have already been ordered destroyed on Sunday as a precautionary measure, with 55,000 other birds within a 500-meter radius to be culled," an official said. In addition, he reported that birds within a 10-kilometer area of the poultry farm will be barred from being sold on the market or moved, while front-line inspectors will carefully monitor birds for sharp hikes in sudden deaths and drops in egg production.On January 7, six duck farms in Naju and Yeongam County, South Jeolla province, were reported to be affected by H5N1 bird flu. Suspected cases were also reported in Suncheon, South Jeolla province. Over 800,000 birds in the province have been culled so far as a preventative measure. A quarantine official said, “We are making every effort to prevent the virus that has already affected South Jeolla province from spreading to other regions.”